about/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
---

Here
---

*Robots with Hearts* is a blog about society.  It's a space for art and non-art: poetry, fiction, essays, and
visual art.  Most of it is my own, but I also commission and accept work from others.

Who I am and what I do
---

My name is Isaac Hollander McCreery.  Most people call me Ike.

I am a scholar, activist, software engineer, and recent graduate of Oberlin College in Oberlin, OH.  My research
interests lie primarily at the convergence of the social and formal sciences.  Most recently, I have worked
as a Data Science Fellow at the University of Chicago.  You can find my resume
[here]({{ site.baseurl }}/isaac_hollander_mccreery_resume.pdf).

Outside of work, I like being outside and using my body.  I love meeting people, and I enjoy philosophical discussion
but for the most part don't like small talk [1].  I wish I read more, and often trust friends who are more bookworms
than I am to fill me in on what they're learning.

### Research Interests

In the social sciences, I'm primarily concerned with systems of power and how they manifest and function in society.
For example,

- capital, the process of wealth creating more wealth for its owners, is the primary form of economic power, and
  political economists for centuries have been concerned with how it functions and interacts with other forms of power;
- technology allows certain people to construct, and perhaps sell, things that other people can't, it also allows
  certain groups to influence other groups through marketing, branding, etc.;
- cultural, social, and political power provision certain individuals and groups with the ability to exert dominance
  over others by imposing cultural constructions, such as identity stigma, (racism, sexism, classism, transphobia, etc.)
  brand cache, and celebrity status.

These issues have been under consideration for centuries, but society is changing dramatically, and our tools for
gaining understanding are also shifting.

In the formal sciences, I am interested in the theory of computational languages, type theory, and compiler construction and
engineering.  Programming languages and their related components allow humans to construct complex systems far beyond
our own comprehension.

For most of its short history, computer science has been primarily concerned with constructing complex logical systems;
however, we are beginning to see that the tools developed by computer scientists also give us the ability to reason
about emergent complex systems such as those found in the social sciences.  Insight driven by data is somewhat
interesting to me, but insight based on logical systems is even more so.  In other words, I'm interested in how we can
leverage computation to reason about systems that are too complex for humans to comprehend.

In all of this work, I aim to push society away from domination in all its forms and toward justice and equity.

[1] That is, between humans, not to be confused with the language [Smalltalk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smalltalk),
about which I have no strong negative feelings.

Commit message:

Updates for working at Google, disclaimer

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
---

Here
---

*Robots with Hearts* is a blog about society.  It's a space for art and non-art: poetry, fiction, essays, and
visual art.  Most of it is my own, but I also commission and accept work from others.

Who I am and what I do
---

My name is Isaac Hollander McCreery.  Most people call me Ike.

I am a scholar, activist, and software engineer.  I recently graduated from Oberlin College in Oberlin, OH, and I now
work at Google as a software engineer on [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io/) [1].  My research interests lie primarily at
the convergence of the social and formal sciences.  Most recently, I have worked as a Data Science Fellow at the
University of Chicago.  You can find my resume [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/isaac_hollander_mccreery_resume.pdf).

Outside of work, I like being outside and using my body.  I love meeting people, and I enjoy philosophical discussion
but for the most part don't like small talk [2].  I wish I read more, and often trust friends who are more bookworms
than I am to fill me in on what they're learning.

### Research Interests

In the social sciences, I'm primarily concerned with systems of power and how they manifest and function in society.
For example,

- capital, the process of wealth creating more wealth for its owners, is the primary form of economic power, and
  political economists for centuries have been concerned with how it functions and interacts with other forms of power;
- technology allows certain people to construct, and perhaps sell, things that other people can't, it also allows
  certain groups to influence other groups through marketing, branding, etc.;
- cultural, social, and political power provision certain individuals and groups with the ability to exert dominance
  over others by imposing cultural constructions, such as identity stigma, (racism, sexism, classism, transphobia, etc.)
  brand cache, and celebrity status.

These issues have been under consideration for centuries, but society is changing dramatically, and our tools for
gaining understanding are also shifting.

In the formal sciences, I am interested in the theory of computational languages, type theory, and compiler construction and
engineering.  Programming languages and their related components allow humans to construct complex systems far beyond
our own comprehension.

For most of its short history, computer science has been primarily concerned with constructing complex logical systems;
however, we are beginning to see that the tools developed by computer scientists also give us the ability to reason
about emergent complex systems such as those found in the social sciences.  Insight driven by data is somewhat
interesting to me, but insight based on logical systems is even more so.  In other words, I'm interested in how we can
leverage computation to reason about systems that are too complex for humans to comprehend.

In all of this work, I aim to push society away from domination in all its forms and toward justice and equity.

[1] Robots with Hearts is a personal project of mine, and the views I express here are my own and in no way represent
those of Google or anyone else other than myself.

[2] That is, between humans, not to be confused with the language [Smalltalk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smalltalk),
about which I have no strong negative feelings.
