# No More Dairy

## Moratorium on All Urban Dairy Import, Except into Private Cities

*March 5, 2029*

*By Isaac Hollander McCreery*

The White House announced today that dairy products will no longer be imported
into most cities, effective immediately.

Dairy commerce into private cities, including San Francisco, Seattle, and
Chicago, will remain, according to the bill passed by Congress on Friday and
signed into law just prior to the announcement.  "Due to the higher taxes that
dairy products garner in private cities, we will continue to allow their import,
from both domestic and foreign areas, into those municipalities," said Herb
Noluck, Commissioner of Food and Drugs.

Federal sales taxes on dairy, like other food, increased to 2.1% in private
cities in June, and remain at 2.0% in public cities and other areas.  The
federal government is expected to gain $30 million in additional annual tax
revenues from the measure.

"This is of course a harrowing and humbling measure," said senator Grompton
Stork, on of the sponsors of the bill, "but as I've said before, desperate times
call for desperate measures.  Dairy production is down, and we need all the tax
revenue we can get from the limited supply."  Stork became known as a key
legislator in commerce regulation when he introduced the landmark Thirty-Third
Amendment to the Constitution, which modified the Commerce Clause of the
Constitution to grant the federal government the power to control intrastate
commerce, paving the way for this legislation.  Stork owns Chicago and
Cleveland, two of the private cities that will be unaffected by the moratorium.

*A. spottifilus* continues to cause havoc in the domestic cow populations.  Milk
production has steadily declined in the last eight years, from its peak of 295
billion pounds in 2021, to its present 84 billion pounds annually at present.

Ramona Blackwater, one of the most outspoken opponents of the bill, called it
"yet another offensive, unconstitutional blemish on the history of food justice
in the United States." At a press conference, she stated, "it's a perfect
example of this country's inability to understand and address systemic issues,
instead choosing to allow tycoons to profit off of disaster capitalism."
Blackwater heads Food & Water Watch, a former-501.c3 group that lost its
non-profit status in the same week that three of its top executives were charged
with conspiracy against the United States Government and jailed.
